During
the war, did you ever have an experience where it
seemed like one particular man was trying to kill
you? Every time I had a bullet shot at me, I thought
they were shooting at me personally. No, no, I
never. I felt they were all shooting. at people.
It's an old joke that went along out there. You're
not worried about the bullet with your name on it.
You're worried about the bullet that says, to whom
it may concern, is the one you have to be worried
about. That's an old joke. But, no, what scared
you, what scared me a lot, was you'd be sitting
right next to a person, or laying next to a person.
You're firing at the enemy, and you can't see, and
they can't see you half the time. Then, he gets hit,
and he's no more than two feet away from you. And it
kind of, afterwards, all over, he'd say, God, if I
was just two feet over, he would have gotten me. You
know, and it makes it weird. Or you're in an area and
mortars are coming in, and a mortar hits another
guy's hole where he's sitting. He'd say, God, what
if I was, if that mortar came, if the guy just held
the mortar an inch higher, that would hit my hole,
you know. I never thought of him shooting directly
at me, but he was weird. During the space of the
conflict, under the stresses, Was there ever a
situation where there was one specific man or you
lost control and you wanted to get one guy or get
anyone you could get after what had just happened?
Yeah.
The problem, you get so frustrated at times,
especially when your best friend there gets shot
or wounded or hurt or dies. You won't take it out on
anybody. If I had the Vietnamese you hate after a
while. But that's at first. I don't remember ever
getting super mad to kill someone because, like a
colonel or even somebody in our own unit or the
enemy. I would love to get a hold of them a lot of
times. I wish, a lot of times you kind of wish we
could have just nuked North Vietnam. That's about
as angry as I got toward a person. No one
individually or one person in particular. How was
the psychology of the war on you? There are many
Vietnam veterans who feel like the VC were like
shadows, unable to be hunted down. They would be
able to live off the land, bearing hardships, and
then they could move in and out. How did this affect
you, and how do you think that the ability of the
superior technology, the Americans, affected
the VC mentality or the NBA mentality? I never saw
the VC. The part of country I was in was the I Corps,
which was North Vietnamese regular.
The way that the Vietnamese, the catches they had
now, we were totally superior to the Vietnamese. I
still believe that. The military, when I was
there, was very highly trained. They were there to
do a job, and they could have. I feel the main
problem, again, is going back to politics, the
idea that we could not shoot into certain areas.
And they knew that. Before we caught in a fire
support, we had to get, there's red areas, areas
you could not fire into. So they would say, sorry,
you've got to move out some to shoot in that area.
But you're under fire. You can't do that. They also
knew they could get into a temple. A temple area
starts shooting at you, but you can't shoot back. I
did not like that. If I was a general head of the
press, the first thing I would do is kick all the
press out of Vietnam. That made another problem.
We couldn't do certain things. We couldn't go into
certain areas. We could not ask questions the way
we would like to get information from the enemy.
They were shadows. Of course, I got off the
tangent. I didn't even do that. They had catches. I
don't think they were any more superior I think a
lot of people put their ideas way above what they
really were. They had things put away. They had a
distribution area right on the other side of the
DMZ when we were up at, we call it Big Rock. It is a
place where we watched the Vietnamese on the other
side of the DMZ. They were there. There's a staging
area. It's a staging camp. I don't know how they
worked there. I don't know if they came down,
stayed a couple of weeks or a couple of months, and
moved back up into staging area, or they stayed
their entire time down into I-Corps. I don't know.
But I don't think they were that good. I feel that
they knew the jungle. We didn't. They had certain
areas. They controlled the jungle. We didn't. We
controlled the cities. They controlled
everything else. We would go out on patrol. We
would look for them. They'll hit us. Then we'll run
back to the city, or go back, not run, but go back to
the city. But they controlled and held the
jungles. They held the rice paddies. They held the
farms. We fought the war totally wrong. I blame,
again, politics and our State Department for
that. Scorched earth. Scorched earth was a great
idea. They used the wrong chemicals to do that.
Again, if I was a smart man, I would not be a school
teacher. I would have been a general somewhere.
But they should have, if they would have gotten rid
of the jungle, the
CIA or the people, his intelligence, his advisors
were right. Get rid of the jungle. They have no
place to hide. But how they did it was totally
wrong. And it didn't work at that. They stopped
using Agent Orange because it did not fulfill what
they wanted to do. They would have had to,
whatever, I don't know, burn it down. How should we
have fought the war? Nuke it. No, I'm kidding. I
don't. We could have tried out one of our new bombs
on it to say it accidentally fell out of the
airplane.
If we would have fought the war properly, that's
hard because if I say we fought the war properly,
the first thing we should have done is gotten rid of
the entire government, the corruption going on in
the system, which is not the military's problem.
The military doesn't go in and say, General, we
don't like your president. We don't like the way
your government is. Get rid of it, and then we'll
fight for you. The military has to go in when the
president tells them to. I just feel that State
Department blew it, and they tried to make the Army
be blamed for it. And that's totally wrong. It
wasn't their fault. Get rid of the corruption
first, and then you might have a chance. The people
then would have respected us a little more or their
own government. They would have taken pride in
their own country. They didn't care. They were so
corrupt. Who would want to take pride in a country
that's corrupt? I remember from your previous
lectures at the high school here, you said that
most Vietnamese were just neutral. They cared
about their rice paddy. Yeah. The farming area was
that way. I noticed the guys... I go back to 1954
when Dinh Dinh Phu happened. They were set up by the
U.N., North Vietnam and South Vietnam, they will
take and say, okay, anybody that wants to be
communist, you know, go north, south, same way.
They did that in Korea, but the Korean had a
different philosophy toward life than the
Vietnamese. Totally different type of people,
but they thought it would work that way. These
Vietnamese believed their land was very
important to them. They didn't care what
government they had. They just wanted to make
their rice or whatever they grew and live a very
happy life. They might have, they believed and
they loved Ho Chi Minh. Ho Chi Minh was a great hero
to these people. We, on the other hand, did not like
Ho Chi Minh because he was the bad guy to us. And it
made it difficult because these, I believe that's
who the VC were. Well, I know that's who they were. I
didn't see it again. We're talking just by hearing
other people that were in two corps, three corps,
and especially four corps, that they, at night,
They'd get out a gun, shoot one American, hide the
gun, and back right into his field. He did not like
Americans. Not that he didn't like us. He did not
want us there. He wanted that to be one country
again. We were there stopping his country from
being unified. They're not a very smart people.
They're farmers. They're just regular people.
They just want to be left alone. We wouldn't. And
they did not like us for that. So would you consider
the American influence, in addition to the fact
that the South is so corrupt, a major contribution
to the resistance that would grow as long as the
Americans were there? I think that they believed
the Americans, which it was, that the Americans
caused the corruption, caused the collapse of
respect for themselves. And I believe the
Americans did cause that.
The last I heard, the Vietnam War is still going on.
They just change sides every so often. Different
people try to take over. South Vietnam, China now,
I heard, is trying again to take over. It's an area
that is continuous. Whoever's fighting will
always fight for Vietnam. Your
great-great-grandchildren might be there
again. I hope not, but it could happen. What is your
strongest memory about Vietnam? Bleeding. No,
no. The
strongest memory. USO shows. Dirty
8mm films that we somehow got in there. R&R. I don't
remember too much about R&Rs, except I've got a lot
of pictures out of focus.
Let's see. The guys that I hung around with. Things
like that. The bad parts of Vietnam, I don't want to
remember. It's not that I'm trying to blot them
out. It's just they were bad parts. Vietnam to me
was three years of my life that I grew up with. I have
a lot of respect for the military because I grew up
there, and I thought that I owed the military
something. So that's why anything to do with the
military today, I believe it should be stronger. I
think boot camps should be ten times harder than
what they have today because... i know what i had to
go through some of the dumbest things in the world
but again it it helped me understand myself by
doing these dumb things looking back at the time
it's just stupid but looking back it really helped
me um the the friendliness of the military
sometimes and you also you got the quacks in there
you got the kooks uh the poker games the uh short
sheets you've got all that uh putting salt in the
shower heads uh just all kind of things that they
would do to you and of course you do it back to them uh
meeting other guys i but the killing in the at that
part i don't like to remember too much of i just like
to forget that some guys that that's all they live
for is to say how bad it was in vietnam and it was
pretty bad but then again i try to remember the fun
parts the uh hill ford isn't it's not as bad i can't i
have a fond memory not of vietnam but of the
camaraderie So there was a strong feeling of even
family between the two? Oh, yeah, yeah. Some
people got very, very close. I have a friend that we
became super, super, super close. We went on one
R&R together. As we can say, as we would have said
together, between us two, we were arrested in
every country we went to. Drug and disorderly, of
course, but then what they'd do is As a military,
they'd say, okay, sober up, and we say we promise.
And they said, don't get drunk again, we promise.
You know, they let us go, and a couple hours, we're
back there again, you know, saying the same thing.
But again, it's a place to blow off steam and take
total obnoxious people out of ourselves for a few
hours or a few days. Again, all pictures were
almost, most of them are out of focus, and that only
shows me how great of a time I had, I guess. In
Richard Nixon's book, No More Vietnam... Who's
he? Okay, I'm sorry. He claims that we actually won
the war physically, and then we let the South fall
when we decided to cut aid. Cut aid after we brought
our troops out, the major forces. We cut aid
through congressional action. That's
physically how we really lost the war. I don't
believe that. I believe Richard Nixon... Now,
this is hindsight. I could be wrong on this, but
this is what I've heard before from... either
Channel 8 or one of these weird channels that I
watch, educational channels, that was talking to
either the ambassador or one of the top-ranking
members of North Vietnam at the time about the
bombing, a Christmas bombing, where they said,
when solid thunder rolled over, those names, the
OB-52, you hear about that, I know these huge
terminology, but when they said the B-52s came
over Hanoi, During Christmas, during that time
period, Nixon was, you know, letting bomb it. They
were told, one more day, we can't handle it
anymore. North Vietnam was to its knees.
The Christmas, there's a tremendous protest a few
days before Christmas saying, Richard Nixon,
you've got to stop bombing. How cruel of you to bomb
on Christmas Day. Remember, Hanoi, they don't
have Christmas. You know, they have their other
booths. They have tests, which they blow the hell
out of us on their holidays, you know. But we
weren't going to do it to them. And they had a
gigantic protest against Richard Nixon. Richard
Nixon backed down on Christmas Eve, and they said,
Christmas Eve, if they bomb one more day, we'll sue
for peace. We can't handle those B-52s. And he
stopped. And people have said, at that point, if he
would have bombed one more day, the war would have
been over with. I don't believe him. saying that
Congress stopped it. This war never had a chance.
You couldn't have won the war with 500,000 more,
another million men in that country, because
everything was corrupt. We're playing politics.
If they would have gotten everybody out of there,
got the press out and said, okay, Army, fight a war,
it would take about a year. But, of course, there
wouldn't have been very many people left alive,
but they would have fought the war. Again, I feel
sorry for the military generals that were there
because it's embarrassing. They should have,
they had the war won. And politics messed
up. What was your opinion of the anti-war
demonstrators? One of the problems I feel that
lost the war. We've already talked about the
military. I don't blame the military for this
problem. I blame the State Department and the
politicians. Also, I look back What lost the
Vietnam War, we the Vietnamese should really go to
and say, thank you very much, and North Vietnam
should say, thank you very much, were the
protesters. I think that politicians were afraid
of what was happening by high school, college,
especially college students. No one wants to die.
No one wanted to go to Vietnam. We were wrong.
Politicians were wrong. But I think the
protesters did more harm than anything. I'm not
saying that protesting was wrong. I think in this
situation, I guess, we were wrong from the start.
And looking back, I'm saying, thank God we did have
protesters, because we might still be in Vietnam
fighting with a corrupt organization, a corrupt
government still fighting that war. But I blame,
or I'd say that a lot of help for the end of the
Vietnam War was protesters. You're a veteran, and
you retired. the war was still going on. Right.
What was your impression of the media coverage
that was going on in the States because of your own
frame of reference you would have as a veteran of
the same conflict? I dislike it. I think a lot of the
problems of the war, the military messed up on
that. The military did wrong, badly on that. I
mean, you can never say the military did something
wrong. They put a Dan Rather in Vietnam, not just
one man, talking about in general. What they did in
Grenada, or Grenada, is what they should have
done. After they have the battles, and they say,
these are the pictures we want to show you. We'll
take the pictures. We'll give you. Whenever a
person can wake up in the morning, or wake up, go to
work, rush home at 6 o'clock in the evening, turn on
Dan Rather or someone with CBS News saying, today,
2,000 men were injured, 500 were killed. They
don't realize that after a while, you get numb.
You're saying, my God, look how many people are
dying. And you You start your own, and your morale
goes way down. The American public's morale has to
die. You're watching guys, you know, dirty. I
would go out for 60 days at times, and sometimes go
out on patrol, hit a sweep or an operation, and I
might be out for 60 days. I've not come in. I'm not
taking a bath. I had the same clothes on for 60 days.
I stink. Some guy takes a picture of me, you know,
saying, hi, are you having fun in Vietnam? You
know, they say, fuck you. You know, we don't have
anything to do with that guy. But that's what they
showed on television. Dan Rather walked up to a guy
on patrol being shot at saying, hi, are you having
fun here? Morality, you know, morale just dropped
to, you know, zilch at that time. But in World War
II, the same thing happened. If they would have
gone to Iwo Jima and said, hey, are we having fun
here? You know, they would have gotten shot. That
is the difference. They did not come out and say,
20,000 men were killed today in Iwo Jima. Tomorrow
might be 40,000 more. That, I think, destroyed the
war. The morale of the United States just died
because of TV coverage. That's the military. I
blame them. I hope they never do that again. They
just say, CBS, here are the pictures. This is what
you use. If you don't like it, tough luck. You
mentioned earlier that the war turned bad in the
70s. Right. Because of the influx of personnel
or... CBS. I blame it. Again, I fall back. I am a
total dislike for... Major news. Major news did
not care about showing both sides. Major news, all
they wanted to do was either sell newspapers or
sell primetime television to make commercials.
The more blood, the more guts, the more... And then
when a person in high school or college sees this,
and they see only CBS's liberal point of view, you
are... You're not brainwashing, but you're only
showing one side. And they're not showing,
saying, hey, you know, there might be another
side. There might not have been at that time. But
they're frightening people. And I think if I was in
college at that time watching Dan Rather or
whoever was on the CBS News at that time, later on
the ABC started doing the same thing because
everybody turned to CBS to watch the news. They
started doing the same thing, and they noticed
their ratings went back up again.
I think that was unfair, very unfair, and I think
that is one of the major causes. I would have been
totally afraid to go to Vietnam. I would have ran to
Canada because I know that, in my mind, that I had a
feeling I am going to die, you know, and not
everybody did die in Vietnam. A lot of percentage
did, but it frightened too many people. I blame
CBS.